Connections between brain wave frequency and quantum mechanics
--------------------------------------------------------------

23-Apr-99

Here's a thought.  The high-frequency brain waves are associated with
sharpness, clarity, focus, the here-and-now.  The lower-frequency
brain waves are associated with more diffuse states, such as dreaming
(off in another world, or a world of your making), ESP (sensing things
outside the body), intuition (receiving promptings from the universe
as a whole), and so on.

Do you see what I'm suggesting - high-frequency == sharp focus,
low-frequency == diffuse focus.  Isn't this in quantum mechanics too ?
High-frequency waves are very small and high-energy (X-rays, for
example are like particles), whereas low-frequency waves are much
bigger and less defined (like radio waves, which are huge).

What I'm suggesting is that the body is acting like a solid well-
defined particle at high frequencies, and is getting a lot more into
big quantum effects and wave-like behaviour at low frequencies.  And
it's in the quantum effects that the gap into the magic of the
universe lies - the way to escape the Newtonian dull-and-boring
predictable world of the old physics.

At low frequencies, you are a lot less well defined ("Who am I, where
am I ?" has less meaning), and more diffuse (and able to sense things
outside of the body).  Maybe at very low frequencies you are also
diffuse enough to fill (and feel) a much bigger space, aware of what
is going on there.

Maybe with low-frequency and higher-frequency combined, you can sense
a large space, and at the same time define it and analyse it.  You can
be both well-defined and in-your-body, and diffuse and everywhere-
at-once together.  Why not ?  

This would also mean that at very low frequencies, you would become
*huge*.  Probably if you didn't really have the energy to fill this
space, you wouldn't feel much at all.  This idea may also explain why
I'm feeling a lot of energy coming back after listening to delta/theta
frequencies for a while - if I've been *huge* for a while, absorbing
energy from my surroundings in this state, and now I'm person-sized
again, with all that energy inside such a small space, I'm bound to
feel more energised than before.

Perhaps that's why I'm moving so quick all of a sudden !

--
 Jim Peters                  (_)/=\~/_(_)                        Uazú
                          (_)  /=\  ~/_  (_)
 jim@                  (_)    /=\    ~/_    (_)                  www.
 uazu.net           (_) ____ /=\ ____ ~/_ ____ (_)           uazu.net
